# Data 512 Aut 2023 Course Project Final Repository

## What Is This?

This repository contains my work for the course Project for Data 512, which I am taking in Autumn of 2023 and the University of Washington. It contains all relevant materials that together constitute my work on this project.

## About this repo/How to use

This repository contains several elements: code, data, and documents/visualizations. They are each discussed in more detail in the appropriate section below:

### Code

This repository contains six Jupyter Notebooks that together make up the code I wrote for this project. Their filenames are prefixed with Step X.Y, where X is either 1 or 2 to represent whether the notebook is part of the Common Analysis phase of the project (1) or part of the second phase of the project where the results of the common analysis were explored for an assocation with a socioeconomic factor (2). The Y in the Step X.Y prefix further breaks down in what order the notebooks need to be run within the two groups. The Step 2.Y notebooks are reliant on the results of the Step 1.Y notebooks, so if running the code from scratch, those would need to be run first.  

The Common Analysis notebooks (Step 1.Y) are edited for clarity and brevity, to only include the parts that are relevant for the Step 2.Y notebooks. 

### Data

This repository also contains all of the input and intermediary data files needed and generated by my code. These data files are in four directories at the root of the repo: "raw_data", which includes unedited input files used by Step 2.Y Notebooks, "processed_input_data", which includes all of the intermediary data files generated by the Step 2.Y notebooks, "common_analysis_data", which includes data files generated by Step 1.Y notebooks that are then also used by Step 2.Y notebooks.

Two sets of data were not included in this repository due to impractical data sizes. The first is the USGS Wildfires GeoJSON dataset, which can be found in [this link](https://www.sciencebase.gov/catalog/item/61aa537dd34eb622f699df81) in the "GeoJSON files.zip" archive, and is named as "USGS_Wildland_Fire_Combined_Dataset.json". The second set of data that was not able to be included is a list of intermediary files generated specifically by Step 1.1. Rather than go in the "common_analysis folder", these data files should go in their own folder on the root, called "feature_list".  This folder of intermediary files can be found [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1pcZf-HEYLKCokGL7AV9CWfWNyW_YXjDL/view?usp=sharing).

### Visualizations and Documents

The visualizations folder contains visualizations generated by matplotlib in various cells of the Jupyter Notebooks. Lastly, the "documents" folder contains three documents that were written throughout the course of the project - the Extension Plan developed after the Common Analysis phase, as well as the Presentation I made for Clovi, New Mexico's City Council and the Final Report that wraps up the project.


## Permissions and Licensing

This project, in parts where it is specifically noted, uses code made by my instructor for DATA 512 under the Creative Commons license. All original code and documentation, written by myself, is made available to to you under the terms described in the LICENSE file of this repository. 

